README.md, before:

Haskell implementation of a simple Scheme compiler, based on [this tutorial] (https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Write_Yourself_a_Scheme_in_48_Hours).


---


Follow-on Projects
==================

I've finished the tutorial and it works! Yay, I built a language! :)

... What else can I do?


Comments
--------
- Scheme comments start with `;` and go to the end of the line
- Effectively they are treated the same as a space (delimiter between expressions)

To do:
- [x] Modify the `spaces` parser to become `spacesOrComments`
- [x] Deal with spaces at _start_ of input, which cause exceptions in the interpreter
    - [x] Parse `optional spacesOrComments` at start of input (in REPL and loaded files)
    - [x] For the REPL, use `Maybe` to deal with completely blank lines
        - This means I can hit Enter a few times without getting error messages back!
        - REPL only. When loading a file, you kinda _want_ an error if it's empty.


History
-------
- In the REPL, I'm finding it annoying not to be able to hit the up arrow! How to implement this?
- Need to read a character at a time rather than a line at a time.
    - Should it accept up arrow at start of line only, or any time?
- Store each entered expression in a history list
    - Add to the list each time an expression is evaluated
- Up and down arrows let you navigate the history list
    - How to detect these keys?
- Each time a character is entered, add it to the current input string
- If character is '\n' then add it to the history list and evaluate it
- How to store history list?
    - Arg to a recursive function?
    - Mutable variable?


Tail Call Optimisation
----------------------
- This would be interesting. TCO kind of fascinates me for some reason.
- Does implementing in Haskell give me this for free somehow?


Macro expansion
---------------
- Should I try to do this?
- Never used them, could be a good way to learn it.
- Could be a bit deep and confusing

Commit message:

WIP: Attempt tail call optimisation. Not working!
Passing around a boolean indicating when we are in a tail context in the Scheme function.
However we never end up using it for anything!
Key thing seems to be to make sure Haskell itself never have a stack overflow
One way to help is to ensure strictness rather than laziness (not sure what this involves)
In this commit, eval and apply use tail-calls but not tail-*recursive* calls.
i.e. Return value of function is a call to *another* function
Worth trying to refactor for tail recursion, then try strict/lazy stuff.

README.md, after:

Haskell implementation of a simple Scheme compiler, based on [this tutorial] (https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Write_Yourself_a_Scheme_in_48_Hours).


---


Follow-on Projects
==================

I've finished the tutorial and it works! Yay, I built a language! :)

... What else can I do?


Comments
--------
- Scheme comments start with `;` and go to the end of the line
- Effectively they are treated the same as a space (delimiter between expressions)

To do:
- [x] Modify the `spaces` parser to become `spacesOrComments`
- [x] Deal with spaces at _start_ of input, which cause exceptions in the interpreter
    - [x] Parse `optional spacesOrComments` at start of input (in REPL and loaded files)
    - [x] For the REPL, use `Maybe` to deal with completely blank lines
        - This means I can hit Enter a few times without getting error messages back!
        - REPL only. When loading a file, you kinda _want_ an error if it's empty.


History
-------
- In the REPL, I'm finding it annoying not to be able to hit the up arrow! How to implement this?
- Need to read a character at a time rather than a line at a time.
    - Should it accept up arrow at start of line only, or any time?
- Store each entered expression in a history list
    - Add to the list each time an expression is evaluated
- Up and down arrows let you navigate the history list
    - How to detect these keys?
- Each time a character is entered, add it to the current input string
- If character is '\n' then add it to the history list and evaluate it
- How to store history list?
    - Arg to a recursive function?
    - Mutable variable?


Tail Call Optimisation
----------------------
- This would be interesting. TCO kind of fascinates me for some reason.
- Does implementing in Haskell give me this for free somehow?
    - No! Proved it by testing
- Evalutating a function
    - eval
        - func <- eval env function  -- dereference name Atom
        - argVals <- mapM (eval env) args
        - apply func argVals
    - apply
        -   evalBody env =
                liftM last $
                    mapM (eval env) body
        -   (liftIO $
                bindVars closure $
                zip params args)
            >>= bindVarArgs varargs
            >>= evalBody
- Detecting Tail Call
    - Extract last expression in function body
    - Check if it's a list whos first element is an Atom
    - Evaluate the Atom and check if its value is equal to the current func
- Executing tail call
    - Evaluate the args
    - Overwrite the same closure env with new inputs (bindVars and bindVarArgs)
    - Map over the initial expressions again
- Implement a tail-recursive loop in Haskell to do the Scheme tail recursion!!
- In `apply` don't call `eval` on the last expression if it's a tail call.
- Instead re-implement the bit of `eval` that would have been called, so that we don't get deep recursion in Haskell
- 


Macro expansion
---------------
- Should I try to do this?
- Never used them, could be a good way to learn it.
- Could be a bit deep and confusing
